Binding quickstart - Cron input PostgreSQL output quickstart doc (#2471)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/getting-started/quickstarts/bindings-quickstart.md

```bash
cd quickstarts/bindings/db
```

Run the following to start the interactive Postgres CLI:

```bash
docker exec -i -t postgres psql --username postgres  -p 5432 -h localhost --no-password
```

At the `admin=#` prompt, change to the `orders` table:

```bash
\c orders;
```

At the `orders=#` prompt, select all rows:

```bash
select * from orders;
```

The output should look like this:

```
 orderid |  customer  | price
---------+------------+--------
       1 | John Smith | 100.32
       2 | Jane Bond  |   15.4
       3 | Tony James |  35.56
```

#### `components\binding-cron.yaml` component file

When you execute the `dapr run` command and specify the component path, the Dapr sidecar:

- Initiates the Cron [binding building block]({{< ref bindings >}})
- Calls the binding endpoint (`batch`) every 10 seconds

The Cron `binding-cron.yaml` file included for this Quickstart contains the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: cron
  namespace: quickstarts
spec:
  type: bindings.cron
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: schedule
    value: "@every 10s" # valid cron schedule
```

> **Note:** The `metadata` section of `binding-cron.yaml` contains a [Cron expression]({{ ref cron.md }}) that specifies how often the binding is invoked.

Reviewer: I think this link is missing the "<" ">"

---
type: docs
title: "Quickstart: Bindings"

> linkTitle: "Dapr Bindings"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
linkTitle: "Bindings"
```

weight: 70
description: "Get started with Dapr's Binding building block"
---

> Let's take a look at Dapr's [Binding building block]({{< ref bindings >}}). In this Quickstart, you will schedule a script to run every 10 seconds using an input [Cron](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/cron/) binding. The script will process a Json file and output data to a SQL database using the [PostgreSQL](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/postgres) Dapr binding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's take a look at Dapr's [Binding building block]({{< ref bindings >}}). In this Quickstart, you will schedule a script to run every 10 seconds using an input [Cron](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/cron/) binding. The script will process a JSON file and output data to a SQL database using the [PostgreSQL](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/postgres) Dapr binding.
```

> Using bindings, you can trigger your app with events coming in from external systems, or interface with external systems. Bindings provide several benefits for you and your code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using bindings, you can:

- Trigger your app with events coming in from external systems.
- Interface with external systems. 
```

To keep the quickstart streamlined and get people straight into the example, let's leave the following list out. We link to the bindings overview, where they can find this list of benefits.

 - Remove the complexities of connecting to, and polling from, messaging systems such as queues and message buses.
 - Focus on business logic and not implementation details of how to interact with a system.
 - Keep your code free from SDKs or libraries.
 - Handle retries and failure recovery.
 - Switch between bindings at run time.

>  - Build portable applications where environment-specific bindings are set-up and no code changes are required.

Reviewer 2: Per comment above, remove lines 12 - 17.

> For a specific example, bindings would allow your microservice to respond to incoming Twilio/SMS messages without adding or configuring a third-party Twilio SDK, worrying about polling from Twilio (or using websockets, etc.).

Reviewer 2: I'd remove this as well - it doesn't really speak to this specific quickstart example, and it's already in the bindings overview.

<img src="/images/binding-quickstart/Bindings_Quickstart.png" width=800 style="padding-bottom:15px;">

Select your preferred language-specific Dapr SDK before proceeding with the Quickstart.

{{< tabs "Python" "JavaScript" ".NET" "Go" >}}
 <!-- Python -->
{{% codetab %}}

### Pre-requisites

For this example, you will need:

- [Dapr CLI and initialized environment](https://docs.dapr.io/getting-started).
- [Python 3.7+ installed](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

### Step 1: Set up the environment

Clone the [sample we've provided in our Quickstarts repo](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/tree/master/bindings).
```bash
git clone https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts.git
```
### Step 2: Run PostgreSQL Docker Container Locally

> In order to run the PostgreSQL bindings quickstart locally, you will run the [PostgreSQL instance](https://www.postgresql.org/) in a docker container on your machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the [PostgreSQL instance](https://www.postgresql.org/) in a Docker container on your machine.
```

> To run the container locally, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```bash
docker run --name sql_db -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=admin -e POSTGRES_USER=admin -d postgres
```

To see the container running locally, run:
```bash
docker ps
```

The output should be similar to this:
```bash
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE      COMMAND                  CREATED         STATUS         PORTS                    NAMES
55305d1d378b   postgres   "docker-entrypoint.s…"   3 seconds ago   Up 2 seconds   0.0.0.0:5432->5432/tcp   sql_db
```

### Step 3: Setup the database schema

Connect to the local PostgreSQL instance. 
```bash
docker exec -i -t sql_db psql --username admin  -p 5432 -h localhost --no-password
```
This will launch the PostgreSQL cli.
```bash
psql (14.2 (Debian 14.2-1.pgdg110+1))
Type "help" for help.

admin=#
```
Create a new `orders` database.
```bash
create database orders;
```
Connect to the new database and create the `orders` table.
```bash
\c orders;
create table orders ( orderid int, customer text, price float ); select * from orders;
```

### Step 4: Schedule a Cron job and write to the database

> In a terminal window, navigate to the `sdk` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a new terminal window, navigate to the `sdk` directory.
```

```bash
cd bindings/python/sdk
```

Install the dependencies:

```bash
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

Run the `python-quickstart-binding-sdk` service alongside a Dapr sidecar.

```bash
dapr run --app-id python-quickstart-binding-sdk --app-protocol grpc --app-port 50051 --components-path ../../components python3 batch.py
```

> The `python-quickstart-binding-sdk` uses the PostgreSQL Output Binding defined in the [`bindings.yaml`]({{< ref "#bindingsyaml-component-file" >}}) component to insert the `OrderId`, `Customer` and `Price` records into the `orders` table. This code is executed every 10 seconds (defined in [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) in the `components` directory).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `python-quickstart-binding-sdk` uses the PostgreSQL Output Binding defined in the [`bindings.yaml`]({{< ref "#bindingsyaml-component-file" >}}) component to insert the `OrderId`, `Customer`, and `Price` records into the `orders` table. This code is executed every 10 seconds (defined in [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) in the `components` directory).
```

```python
def sql_output(order_line):

    with DaprClient() as d:
        sqlCmd = 'insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values ({}, \'{}\', {});'.format(order_line['orderid'], order_line['customer'], order_line['price'])
        payload = {  'sql' : sqlCmd }
        print(json.dumps(payload), flush=True)
        try:
            d.invoke_binding(binding_name=sql_binding, operation='exec', binding_metadata=payload, data='')        
        except Exception as e:
            print(e, flush=True)
```

### Step 5: View the Output Binding log

> Notice, as specified above, the code invokes the Output Binding with the `OrderId`, `Customer` and `Price` as a payload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice, as specified above, the code invokes the Output Binding with the `OrderId`, `Customer`, and `Price` as a payload.
```

Output Binding `print` statement output:
```
== APP == {"sql": "insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (1, 'John Smith', 100.32);"}
== APP == {"sql": "insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (2, 'Jane Bond', 15.4);"}
== APP == {"sql": "insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (3, 'Tony James', 35.56);"}
```

### Step 6: Process the `orders.json` file on a schedule

> The `python-quickstart-binding-sdk` uses the Cron Input Binding defined in the [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) component to process a json file containing order information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `python-quickstart-binding-sdk` uses the Cron Input Binding defined in the [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) component to process a JSON file containing order information.
```

The PostgreSQL `bindings.yaml` file included for this Quickstart contains the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: SqlDB
  namespace: quickstarts
spec:
  type: bindings.postgres
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: url # Required
    value: "user=admin password=admin host=localhost port=5432 dbname=orders pool_min_conns=1 pool_max_conns=10"
```

In the YAML file:

- `spec/type` specifies that PostgreSQL is used for this binding.
- `spec/metadata` defines the connection to the PostgreSQL instance used by the component.

{{% /codetab %}}

 <!-- JavaScript -->
{{% codetab %}}

### Pre-requisites

For this example, you will need:

- [Dapr CLI and initialized environment](https://docs.dapr.io/getting-started).
- [Latest Node.js installed](https://nodejs.org/download/).
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)

### Step 1: Set up the environment

Clone the [sample we've provided in our Quickstarts repo](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/tree/master/bindings).
```bash
git clone https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts.git
```

### Step 2: Run PostgreSQL Docker Container Locally

> In order to run the PostgreSQL bindings quickstart locally, you will run the [PostgreSQL instance](https://www.postgresql.org/) in a docker container on your machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the [PostgreSQL instance](https://www.postgresql.org/) in a Docker container on your machine.
```

> To run the container locally, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```bash
docker run --name sql_db -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=admin -e POSTGRES_USER=admin -d postgres
```

To see the container running locally, run:
```bash
docker ps
```

The output should be similar to this:
```bash
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE      COMMAND                  CREATED         STATUS         PORTS                    NAMES
55305d1d378b   postgres   "docker-entrypoint.s…"   3 seconds ago   Up 2 seconds   0.0.0.0:5432->5432/tcp   sql_db
```

### Step 3: Setup the database schema

Connect to the local PostgreSQL instance. 
```bash
docker exec -i -t sql_db psql --username admin  -p 5432 -h localhost --no-password
```
This will launch the PostgreSQL cli.
```bash
psql (14.2 (Debian 14.2-1.pgdg110+1))
Type "help" for help.

admin=#
```
Create a new `orders` database.
```bash
create database orders;
```
Connect to the new database and create the `orders` table.
```bash
\c orders;
create table orders ( orderid int, customer text, price float ); select * from orders;
```

### Step 4: Schedule a Cron job and write to the database

> In a terminal window, navigate to the `sdk` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a new terminal window, navigate to the `sdk` directory.
```

```bash
cd bindings/javascript/sdk
```

Install the dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

Run the `javascript-quickstart-binding-sdk` service alongside a Dapr sidecar.

```bash
dapr run --app-id javascript-quickstart-binding-sdk --app-port 3500 --dapr-http-port 5051 node batch.js --components-path ../../components
```

> The `javascript-quickstart-binding-sdk` uses the PostgreSQL Output Binding defined in the [`bindings.yaml`]({{< ref "#bindingsyaml-component-file" >}}) component to insert the `OrderId`, `Customer` and `Price` records into the `orders` table. This code is executed every 10 seconds (defined in [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) in the `components` directory).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `javascript-quickstart-binding-sdk` uses the PostgreSQL Output Binding defined in the [`bindings.yaml`]({{< ref "#bindingsyaml-component-file" >}}) component to insert the `OrderId`, `Customer`, and `Price` records into the `orders` table. This code is executed every 10 seconds (defined in [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) in the `components` directory).
```

```js
async function processBatch(){
    const loc = '../../orders.json';
    fs.readFile(loc, 'utf8', (err, data) => {
        const orders = JSON.parse(data).orders;
        orders.forEach(order => {
            let sqlCmd = `insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (${order.orderid}, '${order.customer}', ${order.price});`;
            let payload = `{  "sql": "${sqlCmd}" } `;
            console.log(payload);
            client.binding.send(postgresBindingName, "exec", "", JSON.parse(payload));
        });
        console.log('Finished processing batch');
      });
    return 0;
}
```

### Step 5: View the Output Binding log

> Notice, as specified above, the code invokes the Output Binding with the `OrderId`, `Customer` and `Price` as a payload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice, as specified above, the code invokes the Output Binding with the `OrderId`, `Customer`, and `Price` as a payload.
```

Output Binding `console.log` statement output:
```
== APP == [Dapr-JS] Server Started
== APP == {  "sql": "insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (1, 'John Smith', 100.32);" }
== APP == {  "sql": "insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (2, 'Jane Bond', 15.4);" }
== APP == {  "sql": "insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (3, 'Tony James', 35.56);" }
== APP == Finished processing batch
```

### Step 6: Process the `orders.json` file on a schedule

> The `javascript-quickstart-binding-sdk` uses the Cron Input Binding defined in the [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) component to process a json file containing order information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `javascript-quickstart-binding-sdk` uses the Cron Input Binding defined in the [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) component to process a JSON file containing order information.
```

The PostgreSQL `bindings.yaml` file included for this Quickstart contains the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: SqlDB
  namespace: quickstarts
spec:
  type: bindings.postgres
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: url # Required
    value: "user=admin password=admin host=localhost port=5432 dbname=orders pool_min_conns=1 pool_max_conns=10"
```

In the YAML file:

- `spec/type` specifies that PostgreSQL is used for this binding.
- `spec/metadata` defines the connection to the PostgreSQL instance used by the component.

{{% /codetab %}}

 <!-- .NET -->
{{% codetab %}}

### Pre-requisites

For this example, you will need:

- [Dapr CLI and initialized environment](https://docs.dapr.io/getting-started).
- [.NET SDK or .NET 6 SDK installed](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download).
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)

### Step 1: Set up the environment

Clone the [sample we've provided in our Quickstarts repo](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/tree/master/bindings).
```bash
git clone https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts.git
```

### Step 2: Run PostgreSQL Docker Container Locally

> In order to run the PostgreSQL bindings quickstart locally, you will run the [PostgreSQL instance](https://www.postgresql.org/) in a docker container on your machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the [PostgreSQL instance](https://www.postgresql.org/) in a Docker container on your machine.
```

> To run the container locally, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```bash
docker run --name sql_db -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=admin -e POSTGRES_USER=admin -d postgres
```

To see the container running locally, run:
```bash
docker ps
```

The output should be similar to this:
```bash
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE      COMMAND                  CREATED         STATUS         PORTS                    NAMES
55305d1d378b   postgres   "docker-entrypoint.s…"   3 seconds ago   Up 2 seconds   0.0.0.0:5432->5432/tcp   sql_db
```

### Step 3: Setup the database schema

Connect to the local PostgreSQL instance. 
```bash
docker exec -i -t sql_db psql --username admin  -p 5432 -h localhost --no-password
```
This will launch the PostgreSQL cli.
```bash
psql (14.2 (Debian 14.2-1.pgdg110+1))
Type "help" for help.

admin=#
```
Create a new `orders` database.
```bash
create database orders;
```
Connect to the new database and create the `orders` table.
```bash
\c orders;
create table orders ( orderid int, customer text, price float ); select * from orders;
```

### Step 4: Schedule a Cron job and write to the database

> In a terminal window, navigate to the `sdk` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a new terminal window, navigate to the `sdk` directory.
```

```bash
cd bindings/csharp/sdk
```

Install the dependencies:

```bash
dotnet restore
dotnet build batch.csproj
```

Run the `csharp-quickstart-binding-sdk` service alongside a Dapr sidecar.

```bash
dapr run --app-id csharp-quickstart-binding-sdk --app-port 7001 --components-path ../../components -- dotnet run --project batch.csproj
```

> The `csharp-quickstart-binding-sdk` uses the PostgreSQL Output Binding defined in the [`bindings.yaml`]({{< ref "#bindingsyaml-component-file" >}}) component to insert the `OrderId`, `Customer` and `Price` records into the `orders` table. This code is executed every 10 seconds (defined in [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) in the `components` directory).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `csharp-quickstart-binding-sdk` uses the PostgreSQL Output Binding defined in the [`bindings.yaml`]({{< ref "#bindingsyaml-component-file" >}}) component to insert the `OrderId`, `Customer`, and `Price` records into the `orders` table. This code is executed every 10 seconds (defined in [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) in the `components` directory).
```

```cs
foreach( Order ord in ordersArr.orders){
    var sqlText = $"insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values ({ord.OrderId}, '{ord.Customer}', {ord.Price});";
    var command = new Dictionary<string,string>(){
        {"sql",
        sqlText}
    };
    await client.InvokeBindingAsync(sqlBindingName, "exec", command,command);
    Console.WriteLine(sqlText);
}
```

### Step 5: View the Output Binding log

> Notice, as specified above, the code invokes the Output Binding with the `OrderId`, `Customer` and `Price` as a payload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice, as specified above, the code invokes the Output Binding with the `OrderId`, `Customer`, and `Price` as a payload.
```

Output Binding `Console.WriteLine` statement output:
```
== APP == insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (1, 'John Smith', 100.32);
== APP == insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (2, 'Jane Bond', 15.4);
== APP == insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (3, 'Tony James', 35.56);
```

### Step 6: Process the `orders.json` file on a schedule

> The `csharp-quickstart-binding-sdk` uses the Cron Input Binding defined in the [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) component to process a json file containing order information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `csharp-quickstart-binding-sdk` uses the Cron Input Binding defined in the [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) component to process a JSON file containing order information.
```

The PostgreSQL `bindings.yaml` file included for this Quickstart contains the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: SqlDB
  namespace: quickstarts
spec:
  type: bindings.postgres
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: url # Required
    value: "user=admin password=admin host=localhost port=5432 dbname=orders pool_min_conns=1 pool_max_conns=10"
```

In the YAML file:

- `spec/type` specifies that PostgreSQL is used for this binding.
- `spec/metadata` defines the connection to the PostgreSQL instance used by the component.

{{% /codetab %}}

 <!-- Go -->
{{% codetab %}}

### Pre-requisites

For this example, you will need:

- [Dapr CLI and initialized environment](https://docs.dapr.io/getting-started).
- [Latest version of Go](https://go.dev/dl/).
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)

### Step 1: Set up the environment

Clone the [sample we've provided in our Quickstarts repo](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/tree/master/bindings).
```bash
git clone https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts.git
```
### Step 2: Run PostgreSQL Docker Container Locally

> In order to run the PostgreSQL bindings quickstart locally, you will run the [PostgreSQL instance](https://www.postgresql.org/) in a docker container on your machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run the [PostgreSQL instance](https://www.postgresql.org/) in a Docker container on your machine.
```

To run the container locally, run:

```bash
docker run --name sql_db -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=admin -e POSTGRES_USER=admin -d postgres
```

To see the container running locally, run:
```bash
docker ps
```

The output should be similar to this:
```bash
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE      COMMAND                  CREATED         STATUS         PORTS                    NAMES
55305d1d378b   postgres   "docker-entrypoint.s…"   3 seconds ago   Up 2 seconds   0.0.0.0:5432->5432/tcp   sql_db
```

### Step 3: Setup the database schema

Connect to the local PostgreSQL instance. 
```bash
docker exec -i -t sql_db psql --username admin  -p 5432 -h localhost --no-password
```
This will launch the PostgreSQL cli.
```bash
psql (14.2 (Debian 14.2-1.pgdg110+1))
Type "help" for help.

admin=#
```
Create a new `orders` database.
```bash
create database orders;
```
Connect to the new database and create the `orders` table.
```bash
\c orders;
create table orders ( orderid int, customer text, price float ); select * from orders;
```

### Step 4: Schedule a Cron job and write to the database

> In a terminal window, navigate to the `sdk` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a new terminal window, navigate to the `sdk` directory.
```

```bash
cd bindings/go/sdk
```

Install the dependencies:

```bash
go build batch.go
```

Run the `go-input-binding-sdk` service alongside a Dapr sidecar.

```bash
dapr run --app-id go-input-binding-sdk --app-port 6002 --dapr-http-port 6003 --dapr-grpc-port 60002 go run batch.go --components-path ../../components
```

> The `go-input-binding-sdk` uses the PostgreSQL Output Binding defined in the [`bindings.yaml`]({{< ref "#bindingsyaml-component-file" >}}) component to insert the `OrderId`, `Customer` and `Price` records into the `orders` table. This code is executed every 10 seconds (defined in [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) in the `components` directory).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `go-input-binding-sdk` uses the PostgreSQL Output Binding defined in the [`bindings.yaml`]({{< ref "#bindingsyaml-component-file" >}}) component to insert the `OrderId`, `Customer`, and `Price` records into the `orders` table. This code is executed every 10 seconds (defined in [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) in the `components` directory).
```

```go
func sqlBindings(order Order) (err error) {

	bindingName := "SqlDB"

	client, err := dapr.NewClient()
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}

	ctx := context.Background()

	sqlCmd := fmt.Sprintf("insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (%d, '%s', %s);", order.OrderId, order.Customer, strconv.FormatFloat(order.Price, 'f', 2, 64))
	fmt.Println(sqlCmd)
	in := &dapr.InvokeBindingRequest{
		Name:      bindingName,
		Operation: "exec",
		Data:      []byte(""),
		Metadata:  map[string]string{"sql": sqlCmd},
	}
	err = client.InvokeOutputBinding(ctx, in)
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
	return nil
}
```

### Step 5: View the Output Binding log

> Notice, as specified above, the code invokes the Output Binding with the `OrderId`, `Customer` and `Price` as a payload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice, as specified above, the code invokes the Output Binding with the `OrderId`, `Customer`, and `Price` as a payload.
```

Output Binding `console.log` statement output:
```
== APP == The File is opened successfully...
== APP == dapr client initializing for: 127.0.0.1:60002
== APP == insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (1, 'John Smith', 100.32);
== APP == insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (2, 'Jane Bond', 15.40);
== APP == insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (3, 'Tony James', 35.56);
== APP == Finished processing batch
```

### Step 6: Process the `orders.json` file on a schedule

> The `go-input-binding-sdk` uses the Cron Input Binding defined in the [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) component to process a json file containing order information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `go-input-binding-sdk` uses the Cron Input Binding defined in the [`cron.yaml`]({{< ref "#cronyaml-component-file" >}}) component to process a JSON file containing order information.
```

---
type: docs
title: "Quickstart: Input & Output Bindings"
linkTitle: "Bindings"
weight: 70
description: "Get started with Dapr's Binding building block"
---

Let's take a look at Dapr's [Bindings building block]({{< ref bindings >}}). Using bindings, you can:

- Trigger your app with events coming in from external systems.
- Interface with external systems.

> In this Quickstart, you will schedule a batch script to run every 10 seconds using an input [Cron](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/cron/) binding. The script will process a JSON file and output data to an external SQL database using the [PostgreSQL](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/postgres) Dapr binding.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this Quickstart, you will schedule a batch script to run every 10 seconds using an input [Cron](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/cron/) binding. The script processes a JSON file and outputs data to a SQL database using the [PostgreSQL](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/postgres) Dapr binding.
```

<img src="/images/binding-quickstart/bindings-quickstart.png" width=800 style="padding-bottom:15px;">

Select your preferred language-specific Dapr SDK before proceeding with the Quickstart.

{{< tabs "Python" "JavaScript" ".NET" "Go" >}}
 <!-- Python -->
{{% codetab %}}

### Pre-requisites

For this example, you will need:

- [Dapr CLI and initialized environment](https://docs.dapr.io/getting-started).
- [Python 3.7+ installed](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

### Step 1: Set up the environment

> Clone the [sample we've provided in our Quickstarts repo](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/tree/master/bindings).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Clone the [sample provided in the Quickstarts repo](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/tree/master/bindings).
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts.git
```

### Step 2: Run PostgreSQL Docker container locally

> You will run the [PostgreSQL instance](https://www.postgresql.org/) locally in a Docker container on your machine. The Quickstart sample includes a Docker Compose file to locally customize, build, run, and initialize the `postgres` container with a default `orders` table.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You run the [PostgreSQL instance](https://www.postgresql.org/) locally in a Docker container on your machine. The Quickstart sample includes a Docker Compose file to locally customize, build, run, and initialize the `postgres` container with a default `orders` table.
```

> In a terminal window, from the root of the Quickstarts clone directory, navigate to the `bindings\db` directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In a terminal window, from the root of the Quickstarts clone directory, navigate to the `bindings/db` directory.
```

```python
# Triggered by Dapr input binding
@app.route('/' + cron_binding_name, methods=['POST'])
def process_batch():
```

The `python-quickstart-binding-sdk` service uses the PostgreSQL output binding defined in the [`bindings.yaml`]({{< ref "#bindingsyaml-component-file" >}}) component to insert the `OrderId`, `Customer`, and `Price` records into the `orders` table. 

```python
with DaprClient() as d:
    sqlCmd = ('insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values' +
              '(%s, \'%s\', %s)' % (order_line['orderid'],
                                    order_line['customer'],
                                    order_line['price']))
    payload = {'sql': sqlCmd}

    print(sqlCmd, flush=True)

    try:
        # Insert order using Dapr output binding via HTTP Post
        resp = d.invoke_binding(binding_name=sql_binding, operation='exec',
                                binding_metadata=payload, data='')
        return resp
    except Exception as e:
        print(e, flush=True)
        raise SystemExit(e)
```

### Step 4: View the output of the job

> Notice, as specified above, the code invokes the Output Binding with the `OrderId`, `Customer`, and `Price` as a payload.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Notice, as specified above, the code invokes the output binding with the `OrderId`, `Customer`, and `Price` as a payload.
```

Your output binding's `print` statement output:

```
== APP == {"sql": "insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (1, 'John Smith', 100.32);"}
== APP == {"sql": "insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (2, 'Jane Bond', 15.4);"}
== APP == {"sql": "insert into orders (orderid, customer, price) values (3, 'Tony James', 35.56);"}
```

In a new terminal, verify the same data has been inserted into the database. Navigate to the `bindings/db` directory.

```bash
cd quickstarts/bindings/db
```

Run the following to start the interactive Postgres CLI:

```bash
docker exec -i -t postgres psql --username postgres  -p 5432 -h localhost --no-password
```

At the `admin=#` prompt, change to the `orders` table:

```bash
\c orders;
```

At the `orders=#` prompt, select all rows:

```bash
select * from orders;
```

The output should look like this:

```
 orderid |  customer  | price
---------+------------+--------
       1 | John Smith | 100.32
       2 | Jane Bond  |   15.4
       3 | Tony James |  35.56
```

#### `components\binding-cron.yaml` component file

When you execute the `dapr run` command and specify the component path, the Dapr sidecar:

> - Initiates the Cron [Binding building block]({{< ref bindings >}})

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Initiates the Cron [binding building block]({{< ref bindings >}})
```

- Calls the binding endpoint (`batch`) every 10 seconds

The Cron `binding-cron.yaml` file included for this Quickstart contains the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: cron
  namespace: quickstarts
spec:
  type: bindings.cron
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: schedule
    value: "@every 10s" # valid cron schedule
```

> **Note:** The `metadata` section of `binding-cron.yaml` contains a [Cron expression](/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/cron/) that specifies how often the binding will be invoked.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note:** The `metadata` section of `binding-cron.yaml` contains a [Cron expression](/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/cron/) that specifies how often the binding is invoked.
```

#### `component\bindings-postgres.yaml` component file

When you execute the `dapr run` command and specify the component path, the Dapr sidecar:

> - Initiates the PostgreSQL [Binding building block]({{< ref /reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/postgres.md >}})

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Initiates the PostgreSQL [binding building block]({{< ref /reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/postgres.md >}})
```

With the `bindings-postgres.yaml` component, you can easily swap out the backend database [binding](/reference/components-reference/supported-bindings/) without making code changes.

The PostgreSQL `bindings-postgres.yaml` file included for this Quickstart contains the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: sqldb
  namespace: quickstarts
spec:
  type: bindings.postgres
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: url # Required
    value: "user=postgres password=docker host=localhost port=5432 dbname=orders pool_min_conns=1 pool_max_conns=10"
```

In the YAML file:

- `spec/type` specifies that PostgreSQL is used for this binding.
- `spec/metadata` defines the connection to the PostgreSQL instance used by the component.

{{% /codetab %}}

 <!-- JavaScript -->
{{% codetab %}}

### Pre-requisites

For this example, you will need:

- [Dapr CLI and initialized environment](https://docs.dapr.io/getting-started).
- [Latest Node.js installed](https://nodejs.org/download/).
- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)

### Step 1: Set up the environment

> Clone the [sample we've provided in our Quickstarts repo](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/tree/master/bindings).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Clone the [sample provided in the Quickstarts repo](https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/tree/master/bindings).
```
